Since the day I stared into the absolute truth of the universe, I have never been the same.

I went in a sane man...and came out, like this.

I realized billions before me suffered the same way I did. And I thought billions after me would, too.

My assumptions weren't completely wrong. I have seen, and actually lured many, into witnessing the truth that can't be seen. A truth so powerful it empties you on the inside.

But you. You were different.

You were the only one, instead of closing your eyes and fear - you stared dead into the nothingness, and bent it over with your own hands.

Out of indestructible courage or sheer ignorance? If I were to guess, I guess it's a mixture of both.

Still, I don't know. I think you are the only one who know the reason.

And I envy you. Had I done the same decision, none of us will be here. 

Many will be saved from seeing the unseen. Saved from seeing what they fear. And you and I can go on a mining trip happily together.

But I can't. I never tried to stop. Even if I tried, I'm sure I wouldn't.

Now, imagine having eaten a damn fine potato when you are hungry. You are given the choice to vomit it out, and doing so can probably, perhaps, maybe, save the life of one or two ants.

Any sensible person wouldn't have took the offer. But you did.

That's when I realized, humans are not sensible. That might seem like a flaw, but if you look closer, sometimes the best choices are not the best choices.

At that moment, the flaw became an advantage. If you throw out all reasons and logics when making a decision, the only thing that determines your fate, is pure luck.

And you were pretty lucky.

I have been waiting, PLAYERNAME. For a long, long time.

Waiting for your birth, your growth, and the finality of today.

Even as the most powerful being in this universe, I get bored quickly in this empty void.

My existence is dropping out of meanings. And being immortal doesn't help in this situation.

But then, I met you.

And I knew what I'd be missing.

I saw my shadows in you. No, not the grotesque monster of what I am now.

It was myself in the long gone past.

Before it was washed away by waves. 

Before it was burned up in flames.

Before it was corroded by the flow of time.

Before potatoes gave me everything, then took them away from me.

Like you, I was a human. And a thaumaturge too.

I dreamed of becoming a thaumaturge since I was a child. Yes, we had a similar childhood. Except I had a happy one, yours...well, caught on fire.

The researches I did, the spells I casted, and extracting various things with alchemy...oh, good old times.

You know what's the best part about thaumaturgy? The smell. The smell of pure, unadulterated magic.

Years went past, and I have been really happy with all the works I done, until that one day.

Some essentia flew into a bunch of potatoes and cooked them whole. Out of curiosity, I tried to study the magical properties of potatoes.

It was already too late. Those scrambled yellow pieces of papers merely nailed into the shape of a book, in your hands? That was mine. My thaumonomicon.

And when I opened my eyes again, I was here.

You have seen it too. The truth. The truth of what constructs this very universe. The fate of all living beings, from the beginning of the world, to the end of it.

The result of all possible choices. The eventual collapse of everything you know and love. In the grand scale of the universe, we are not even a rounding error.

Yet you stay unmoved. Uninterested, to say at least. You called it a lie.

Fact is that when enough people believes in a lie, it becomes truth. And when enough people deny a truth, it became a lie.

and you. You denied the truth, and believed in your own lies.

and you were finally truly free. Not restrained by order or chaos, right or wrong, black or white, potatoes or carrots

and you simply live by your own rules

and you see a rock covering great views you blew it up

and you see a zombie stepping into your house you slash it apart

and you see a mountain blocking your way you punch it until it flattens

and you see an unbearable truth you deny it and create your own

and throughout the journey you were right all along

and everything went as you intended them to be

and every choice you made you never regret

and I'm glad you stopped me

My dreams died with me. But they live on with you.

The slaughters will continue.

But the end is not near.

People will keep on dying for reasons they don't understand. Causes they don't believe in.

But, I know.

You will never fall.

Thank you.

And farewell.




